In this exercise, we're back with business A and B.
Now, we need to advise them on how to create
unbiased test and control groups for their experiment.
A quick review of business A;
business A wanted to make changes to a page used by existing customers.
Specifically, business A wanted to change the design on the page
to push more customers to use a feature that allowed them to link their social accounts.
Because this page and feature has a limited small number of users,
we recommended business A run an A/B test with
one experiment group viewing
the control and one experiment group viewing a change to the page.
In order to create unbiased control and test groups,
business A should only target desired users.
In this case, the desired users are existing users,
so they should ensure that they only show the test to logged in users,
and they should balance the user types by randomly
assigning users to either the test or control condition.
With random assignment, it is likely that devices,
operating systems and even user types,
such as newer versus established users,
frequent versus infrequent users,
would be relatively similar across both groups.
However, the business should confirm that these user characteristics are
roughly similar across both groups to prevent unintentional bias.
Now let's look at business B.
Business B was a gallery that wanted to make
changes to a landing page visited by new customers.
Specifically, business B wanted to change the number of pictures on the page to
see what density of pictures would encourage
customers to click through to learn more about the gallery.
Because this page had a high amount of traffic,
we recommended that they run a multivariate test that
tested a different number of pictures across and down the page.
When considering what business B should do to ensure unbiased control in test groups,
they should target only desired users.
The desired users in the case of business B,
was new visitors to the site,
only new visitors, to the best of
business B's knowledge should be put in the experiment's control and test groups.
Next, to prevent bias,
the business should randomly place new visitors into control and test groups.
As they are performing a multivariate test,
the business may want to use a framework for multivariate testing that
assigns users at different rates based on the impacts seen from different designs.
If the business does not have the resources to use such a framework,
they can assign each new visitor to one of the test states by
randomly assigning users to a control or one of the test groups.
User characteristics should be roughly balanced and therefore,
will not bias the results.